themes/foundation/README.md, before:

# Keystone

## Description

A responsive Vanilla theme with customization options.

## Customizations

-   Javascript to animate the open and close of the mobile navigation menu.
-   Sets its own flyout open/close listeners.
-   Dependency on the [theme-boilerplate](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vanillaforums/theme-boilerplate).
-   Overwrites the `themeOptions_create` to support `hasHeroBanner`, `hasFeatureSearchbox` and `panelToLeft` customized options.
-   Custom options `hasHeroBanner`, `hasFeatureSearchbox` are dependent on the Hero Image Plugin.
-   If Advanced Search Plugin is enabled, the theme will render advanced search module, otherwise, it will render the search module.

## Building Styles / Javascript / Images

This theme is built with the [Vanilla Cli](https://docs.vanillaforums.com/developer/vanilla-cli/) and does not come with its own build toolchain. With that installed you can simply run:

```bash
vanilla build
```

or

```bash
vanilla build --watch
```

to build your styles/js/images. Documentation for the CLI can be found [here](https://docs.vanillaforums.com/developer/vanilla-cli/#build-tools).

Commit message:

Add sass build to foundation and update README

themes/foundation/README.md, after:

# Foundation

Foundation is Vanilla's first asset-compatible theme. It defines the following assets:

- `variables.json` - Defines color variables for the forum and knowledge base.
- `footer.twig` - Footer of the theme.
- `styles.(s)css` - Independantly scoped styles that apply to the footer (and header if it exists). See [Build instructions](#building-the-theme)

## Building the theme 

Building this theme requires the following pre-requisites:

- The theme is present in the `themes` directory of a Vanilla installation.
- A Vanilla version of `4.0-2020.001` or later.
- Node & yarn are setup in your development environment. See [prerequsite docs](https://docs.vanillaforums.com/developer/tools/building-frontend/#prerequisites) for installation instructions.
- Vanilla's `node_modules` are installed. Run `yarn install` in the root of the Vanilla installation.

### The `src` directory

Files in the `src` directory use Vanilla's built-in build process. See [the Building Frontend Documentation](https://docs.vanillaforums.com/developer/tools/building-frontend/).

TL;DR:

- To run a fast development build, that will watch for changes:
  - Add `$Configuration['HotReload']['Enabled'] = true;` to your config.
  - Run `yarn build:dev`.
- To run a production build:
  - Run `composer install` _or_ `yarn build`.

### The `styles.scss` asset

This asset is _not_ integrated into prodcution builds of the core process.

As such while working on the isolated header/footer stylesheet, it can be rebuild as follows

- Navigate to the theme's root directory in your terminal. 
- To build it once: `yarn build`
- To build it and watch for changes: `yarn build --watch`
